We're going to deal with this
sort of big topic that is building
document-based applications,
and in particular,
building document-based applications
that are going to live in iCloud.
Because if you're going to write a
great document-based application on iOS,
you're going to use iCloud.
So it's a big topic,
document-based applications,
and in particular in iCloud.
But we're going to try to hit on
some key points that will help
you write better document-based
applications using UIDoctument.
So how we're going to do that is walk
through actually building an app.
We're going to walk through some
of the key steps today in building
a working iCloud application.
And the main areas we're going
to focus on in building that
app are application design,
things we can do up front to
ensure that our application is
well-tailored for working in iCloud.
We're going to talk
about document design,
which is the thinking that we have.
We're going to talk about the
things that we need to put in to
making sure we have a well-tailored
format for writing our data to
storage and syncing up to the cloud.
And lastly,
we'll talk about finishing touches,
things to make sure we have
taken care of in our application
before we ship it to users.
So I'd like to start out today by
actually showing you the app that
we're going to be working with.
And this is version 2.0 of the CloudNodes
app that some of you may have seen.
In last year's demo.
Here's my application, CloudNodes.
And it wants to know if
I want to use iCloud.
I, in fact, do.
And this application presents me
with a list of note documents.
I have a couple.
And each note document has -- contains
within it several note records.
So a note document is a list of
notes where each note has a --
has a picture associated
with it and some text.
In this app, I can create new documents.
I can make some stage notes for myself.
You know, something like, you know,
talk loudly.
I have a microphone for that, thankfully.
And, you know, enunciate.
And that's the kind of
thing that this app does.
I can go back, close it, save it,
reopen it, my data's there.
Pretty simple application,
document-based.
And we're going to spend the
rest of the talk talking about
the main -- the key pieces going
into building an app like this.
So that's what we can look forward to.
First step in this is application design.
We want to determine what are the key
steps that we want to take care of up
front when we're first building our
application to ensure that we're in
the best place to work with iCloud.
And the first step in this
is deciding where are we
going to store our documents.
This is a very key question if we're
going to be a document-based application.
Where do our documents live?
And our basic choices are files
are going to live locally or
they're going to live in the cloud.
And the message that I really want
you to take away from this talk is
let your users make this decision.
Documents are either stored locally
or they're stored in the cloud.
And we want the decision when
we ask the user to make it
to be as easy as it can be.
So we want to ask them once,
like the first time that
they launch the application.
And when they decide,
it's completely all or none.
They say, yes, I want to use iCloud.
Then you're going to store all of
their documents in the cloud from that
point on and not even ask them again.
One of the things that this implies
is we don't want to necessarily
think about not only storing some
in the cloud and some locally,
but also let's not worry
about... trying to sync,
having mirrored versions of our
documents locally at the same time
that we're putting in the cloud.
It's a very simple user
experience to understand.
We're just going to put everything
in the cloud or everything locally if
that's what they choose and not try to
maintain local versus cloud versions.
If they sign out of iCloud,
they won't be able to
access their data anymore.
But that's fine.
They'll be able to sign back in and
access their data if they so choose.
They can understand that.
So we want to have something
that looks like this.
On the first time.
They launch their application.
You don't need this exact UI,
but this is the rough
idea of asking your user,
hey, do you want to use iCloud?
They decide yes or no.
You don't have to ask them again.
After you know what you're going to do,
and we're going to assume that what
you're going to do is use iCloud
for the purposes of this talk,
let's talk about how you write
sort of the bootstrapping
code in your application,
the stuff that you do up front so that
you're prepared to access iCloud Storage.
And many of you understand
that as accessing URL for
Ubiquiti Container Identifier.
So this is work we're going to do
in Application Did Finish Launching.
Right when your application gets started,
we're going to call a new
API that we introduced in iOS 6.
And this is NSFileManager
Ubiquiti Identity Token.
And the reason we introduced this
API is because the URL for Ubiquiti
Container Identifier can take
up to a few seconds to complete.
Many of you have run into this problem.
And it's not something that's
safe to call on the main thread.
And it doesn't guarantee a
quick answer to the question of,
is iCloud?
So this is a method you can call safely
in your Application Did Finish Launching
method that if it returns non-nil,
that tells you iCloud is in
fact enabled on this device.
So you call this right away in
Application Did Finish Launching
to know if iCloud is enabled.
After you've determined
whether it is enabled,
you register for another
bit of new API in iOS 6.
A notification,
NS Ubiquiti Identity Token
did change notification,
that tells you whether the
aforementioned token changed.
And it tells you when it changed, rather.
So if you launch your application
and the user signed in,
but later they sign out,
you'll get a notification
that tells you that.
Or alternatively,
if your application launches,
but the user hasn't set
up an iCloud account yet,
if they sign in later in the
running of your application,
you'll get a notification so
you know that they signed in.
And then maybe you can deal
with iCloud at that time.
So let's go ahead and
assume iCloud is enabled.
The user has an account.
Now we have to access URL for
Ubiquiti Container Identifier.
This is where we're going to
get the actual location in
storage where we store our data.
And as I mentioned,
since I can take up to
a few seconds to launch,
it's only safe to call this
method on a background queue.
We don't want to call it
on the main thread lest we
potentially lock up the UI.
So what makes this sort of interesting
is it might take up to a few seconds,
but it also might be fast.
We don't actually know.
This is sort of undefined from the
application's perspective whether it
will be really fast or a little bit slow.
And so we have to do a little
extra work to accommodate for
this sort of known unknown in
that if it does take a long time,
we want to put up some UI so the
user knows what's going on because
we're not going to allow interaction
with our application until we have
that cloud storage identifier.
And so what we do is we
start some kind of timer.
And we're looking to see how long
it takes to return from this method.
If it takes some
non-trivial amount of time,
say 150 milliseconds, we hit a timeout.
And we say, OK,
it's taking a non-trivial amount of time.
We want to display some
UI to the user so that they,
in fact, know what's going on.
The reason we have this timer is
because if it does return quickly,
we don't want to flash
any UI on the screen.
That'll just be distracting.
But if it, in fact, does return quickly,
we don't need any of this.
We're gone.
Don't flash any UI to the user.
And we can move on with life.
We have our URL.
And we can use it.
So with that,
I'd like to show you actual code
that we will use in Cloud Notes to
bootstrap our application.
So this is Cloud Notes 2.0.
And you'll notice on the
left side of the screen,
we've got our source files.
And I just want to give you a quick
rundown to begin of what you see here.
We have an application delegate.
We're going to need that.
We're going to handle
application launching there.
We have a note document.
That's our UI document subclass handling
our reading and writing of data.
I wrote this extra little class
here that I call Cloud Manager that,
from an application design perspective,
I did this so that I could
just have sort of a pulled-out
abstraction of the non- UI-related
bits of interfacing with iCloud.
This is actually where the code
lives that goes and accesses the
URL for Ubiquity Container Identifier.
And then it will store
that value within itself.
It's a singleton class.
So that it is globally accessible.
And any other pieces of my application
will be able to use that object to
determine the URL for Ubiquity Container
Identifier because it will just store it.
And other bits of my application can
access it directly and synchronize.
So I'll just show you the API actually
that I've put here in my Cloud Manager.
It has a property to tell
me if the cloud is enabled.
And the semantic of that is, one,
I determined that iCloud is
enabled on this device and the
user selected to use iCloud.
And if both of those are true,
this will be yes on my
little singleton class.
And then it has a property that tells
me where the data directory is and the
documents directory as derived from the
URL for Ubiquity Container Identifier.
And for those of you
who maybe don't know,
the distinction between a documents
directory and data directory is
documents is where user visible
documents live and data is where
your application metadata lives.
And to make this sort of extra
convenient for my application,
this Cloud Manager will automatically
make the data directory and the documents
directory be the right thing whether
I'm using iCloud or using local storage.
So it will return a local
URL if I'm using local storage.
And it makes the architecture of
the rest of my application easier.
And then I have a root view controller,
which is the thing that
shows my document list.
So right now we want to look at what we
do in application did finish launching.
There's a few steps we're
going to walk through.
And actually, you know,
before I run this,
I'm going to go ahead and just
run the application on my device.
And we'll see where we are before
implementing this iCloud code.
Launch Buddy.
There we go.
Okay, so in this state,
I haven't implemented the iCloud stuff,
so my application is
just showing local notes.
I can -- even though
I'm not using iCloud,
I can add something local.
So, you know, I can add a local file
here in the local zone.
I forgot to set something up on this app,
so that doesn't work.
That's a setup problem with my phone.
Sorry about that.
But so I'm in just the local state.
And I'm going to go write
some code to enable iCloud.
Let me kill that.
And so let's go.
Ta-da!
Back to my machine.
Good!
And so let's walk through
the steps of this.
The first thing I'm going to do is check
what the user's iCloud preference is.
This is the idea for the very first
time we launch our application,
we want to know whether the
user is going to use iCloud.
And it's also called setup if necessary
because we're going to set up our
iCloud storage if the user is in
fact using iCloud and it's enabled.
Okay.
So I'm also going to register
for a couple of notifications.
And two of these notifications
are ones that I've defined myself.
They're container will begin fetching
and container fetching did end.
These are actually defined by my
Cloud Manager with the idea that
this is how I set up that timer
for the UI we talked about earlier.
When the Cloud Manager starts fetching
the ubiquitous container identifier URL,
it sends a will begin
fetching notification.
My app delegate,
which is responsible for the UI,
will start a timer.
And if it does not receive the
fetching did end notification,
by the time the timer times out,
it will put up UI.
If it has put up UI,
it uses the did end notification
to tear down that UI.
And let's look at the implementation
of this sort of critical method,
check user iCloud preference.
And set up.
All right, great.
So this is, as I said,
the first thing we end up
actually doing is asking for
the Ubiquiti Identity Token.
This is our new bit of API.
Then we're going to check our
user defaults because we're
going to use NSUserDefaults to
store the user's preference as to
whether they use iCloud or not.
And so I'm asking for a key that
I've just called use iCloud Storage.
And I'm going to skip over this a
little bit of code later because we're
going to use it in a subsequent demo.
But then I check if my --
If my token is valid,
which means the user
is signed into iCloud,
[Transcript missing]
So the things we're going to talk
about are using file packages here,
things to avoid storing in your document,
how to have sort of
forward-thinking design principles,
and we're also going to talk
about how to design a document
that is able to have previews.
As you saw when I first
showed the application,
my document had previews.
That wasn't true in the last demo,
but we'll get there.
So first of all, file packages.
This is really the biggest
thing about document design
that you want to take away.
If you're not using file packages today,
then it's something I hope you
will be thinking strongly about
when you walk out of this talk.
And what file packages are is a directory
on the file system that is treated
as a single document to your user.
And this has some advantages.
At a very simple level,
it makes it so that you don't
have to take maybe disparate
parts of the user's data and shove
them into a single file blob.
But more than that, it can make your
application perform better,
because when you change just a
single part of your document,
if that single part is represented
by one little file inside
your larger file package,
we only have to write that one
little file out to the NAND storage.
And likewise, we only have to upload that
one file into the cloud.
So we use less network traffic,
and our saving action can be faster.
So let's talk about how we do that.
If you have a, you know,
if we started with a note
document and we think of,
okay, we've got all this content
in a note document,
and maybe in our first iteration
of writing our application,
we just took all that content
and we wrote it out into a file,
and we have a file blob.
And we're thinking, you know,
I think I can make this better
by moving the file packages,
but how do I do that?
Well, the first step is breaking things
out into logical components.
Since a note document has
several notes associated with it,
[Transcript missing]
We can actually go a step further.
We can think about separating
assets from content,
which is to say,
if you think about assets
as things like images,
movies, things that would be treated as
attachments in your document,
that are separate maybe
from the core content,
like the text.
In the case of Cloud Notes,
each note itself has text
associated with it and an asset,
which is the limits that you see.
[Transcript missing]
And when the user edits, say, the text,
we can just save out that file that
has the text for that one note.
And we save out one file out of ten,
one little text file.
And we don't have to spend the time
writing out all of that content,
nor do we have to spend the time
syncing that content up to the cloud.
Another thing you can do is
try to separate out things that
are edited less frequently.
This also applies to actually things
that are edited quite frequently.
If you have knowledge about your
application that a particular part
of the document is rarely edited
or there's a particular part of the
document that is edited all the time,
those components are candidates
for moving out into their own file.
So if you have something that
the user edits constantly and you
can stick it in a nice separated
component from everything else,
then when the user makes
those edits all the time,
you're only just writing
out that little component.
So it'll help you.
Now let's think about the actual
code for reading these file packages.
If you've never actually
done this before,
maybe you'll find this helpful.
So this is how you do this
in a UI document world.
We have our canonical reading
method in UI document,
which is load from contents of type.
And when we're using file packages,
that type -- or rather the
contents will be a NS file wrapper.
That's what we give you when
you're using a file package.
And the way to put this into your
model is to have sort of a master file
wrapper that you keep a reference to.
It can be like an instance
variable in your document.
And you just take the contents,
which is a file wrapper
that we've given you,
and assign that to
your instance variable.
So now your model,
which is a master file wrapper,
is the contents that we've given you.
You can also use an index file that
is part of your document file wrapper
that helps you understand what all
everything else is in this document.
In the case of Cloud Notes, I've got,
you know, some arbitrary number of
notes inside a note document.
And I use an index so I can -- that
index will tell me how many notes are
in there and what their file names are,
how I can access them.
So you can peer inside the
index to know what you actually
have in your file package.
And right away when
you load your contents,
you just kind of load your
little index into your model.
So there you've got your model.
When it comes time to
write out your model,
the way that that works in UIDoctument
is we always want you to snapshot
your model and return to us a
snapshot that we can write to disk.
that we can write to disk.
So when you're using this sort of
master file wrapper as your model,
then snapshotting it is really
just a matter of creating another
NSFileWrapper instance with the
contents of the sub-file wrappers
of your master file wrapper.
So that will act as a snapshot
of your data that we can take
with us and write to storage.
This is actually where the NSFileWrapper
smarts kick in and optimize the behavior
for you because NSFileWrapper is smart
enough to notice subfile wrappers
that haven't changed and it won't
bother writing those out to storage.
So only the stuff that you've
changed will actually get
written out at this point,
and that's what makes it fast.
In between reading and writing,
how you manage your model
is as changes come in,
you make those changes directly to that
master file wrapper that we've saved off,
and that's what we're
treating as our model.
So if I add a new note...
I create new file wrappers,
add them inside my master file wrapper,
and I update that index file,
and then I move on with life.
And part of the way that
UIDocument is designed is that
we only save when we're asked to.
So we will update that file
wrapper that we're containing
as our master file wrapper,
and then wait for contents
for type to get called,
which will be invoked when
autosaving happens or when
the user closes the document.
[Transcript missing]
And really what this is going to
be all about is thinking about
the fact that when you write
version 2.0 of your application,
you may also write version
2.0 of your file format.
If you decide that there's extra data
that you want to store in the document,
or you want to store your
existing data in a different way,
You want a way that your previous
version of your application can
deal with this in a graceful manner.
And the way that we do this
is version your file format.
This is something that we want you to
write into your document format today
so that you have a field and if you
call your document format version 1.0,
you have that field that you
can mark up to 2.0 in a future
update in your application.
And this is especially important in
today's world of multiple devices
because it's likely that you're going
to run into a situation where the
user doesn't update your application
simultaneously on all their devices.
So you can very easily run into a
situation where the user is actually
using different versions of your
application on different devices and
all of those versions need to be able
to coexist as gracefully as possible.
So that's what file format
versioning will help you with.
And you can...
Make your versioning help you as
much as possible by defining levels
of interversion compatibility.
And what that means is
maybe in an ideal world,
you make a change to the file
format in version 2.0 of your
application and your document format.
But you do so in a way that version 1.0
of your application actually is able
to safely read and write that document.
So you can actually,
in addition to the format version,
have a field also contained
in your document format that
tells previous versions what
they're able to do with that.
And it might say, hey,
this is actually read-write compatible
with version 1.0 of my application.
And one of the ways you can get to
that place is by designing version
1.0 of your application to ignore
fields that it doesn't understand.
So if it sees a field in your
document that... that you
didn't have code for in 1.0,
the version 1.0 of your
application should probably
just not touch that field.
That will give you the best chance to
be able to write updates in the future
that are able to write out new fields
and version 1.0 of your application
can actually read and write that
document without screwing things up.
So that's how you can get there.
In some cases, that won't be possible.
You'll make changes that...
that the old version of your application
won't be able to safely write out.
But you might still be in a place
where it can safely read version
2.0 of the document format.
That's another marking you can
make in the file format itself.
You can say, this is version 2.0,
but version 1.0 of my application
can safely read this file.
And so version 1.0 can then do the right
thing in terms of being able to read it,
display it to the user,
but it won't let the user
make changes to that document.
And of course,
in the worst case scenario,
we make an update to our
document format that is simply
not compatible between versions.
And then we mark that in
the file format itself.
So version 1.0 of our
application comes along,
reads a file saved by 2.0, says, oh,
this is 2.0 version of the file format,
I don't understand this.
And more than that,
I was told by the info
I find in this document that
I shouldn't try to read this.
So putting that information,
putting those fields in your document
format today will help you tomorrow.
Let's talk about things not
to put in your document,
since we've just talked about great
things to put in your document.
One is maybe not so obvious.
Try not to save scroll positions
in your document format.
And what I mean by that is like
UI scroll view content offset.
That's something we want to
avoid saving in our document.
There's a lot of reasons for this.
One is very simply like between
different versions of your application,
different versions of the iOS software,
and different devices perhaps,
then the scroll view position can change.
And you wouldn't want to be stuck in
a situation where the user is opening
a document and you're writing data out
just because they opened the document.
That's something we want to avoid.
And so to sort of go along with that.
We also wouldn't want to save
the timestamp for the last time
the user opened the document.
One bad situation that this particular
practice can get us into is imagine that
we have one instance of our application
running with the document open.
And we take another
instance of our application,
open that same document.
And our new instance says, hey,
I've just opened the application
or I've opened the document.
I'm going to write out
a timestamp for this.
And this already running instance of our
application sees an update because it
comes across the cloud to this document.
That we wrote out the timestamp.
So it reopens the document.
And because it did that,
then it rewrites a last open timestamp.
And then that goes to the cloud,
back to the other device.
And now they start fighting
for who gets to write the
last open timestamp the most.
And that's going to chew
up network bandwidth,
chew up CPU, chew up everything.
That's a bad situation.
So the moral of that story is avoid
anything that can result in a sync loop.
Last thing we want to think about
here is if you have any sensitive data
that can be stored in your document,
think about this if your application
has a means of publishing the document.
This is pretty common that we have
a way to put a document on the web,
email it to somebody just
with a couple of taps.
And if your application has
functionality like this,
and yet you have information in there
like an undo stack or user information,
any kind of user information that
people wouldn't necessarily want to
publish along with their document,
then it's a good idea to think
about having a step that strips
out this kind of information.
So one feature that people ask how
to do a lot is having a document
preview that they can access on
their device so that they can have
something like a document chooser
that shows previews a la iWork without
having to download all the documents.
Because the basic story in iCloud is
you have to download a document before
you get to access any part of it.
So we're going to talk
about now how to write that.
So in the beginning,
there was your documents.
And they were in the documents directory.
What we want to do to create a preview
is move over to the data directory,
which is where we put
application metadata,
and create preview files over here.
And we want to establish a
one-to-one relationship between
preview files and documents,
and that relationship is
mapped to by the document name.
That way,
just by discovering the document,
then we can also know the
URL where its preview file is.
And once we have this,
we know our file list
from an NSMetadata query,
and then we can access the
URL for the preview file and
download just that rather than
downloading the entire document.
You might have a
200-megabyte document file,
but you've got a nice thumbnail image
that you include -- that you write out
as a preview image that's only a few K,
and you can just download that
and display it to the user in some
kind of document chooser and not
download the whole document unless
and until they choose to open it.
So let's look at actual code
that will do that for you.
So we're going to look in the
UIDoctument low-level writing method,
write contents and attributes
safely to your URL.
This is a method on UIDocument that
you can override that is called
in a background queue UIDocument's
managed file access queue.
So you're safely in the background.
And in here, we want to,
using that method,
write out a preview using the
preview URL that we've established
and write it to that URL.
Now there's one thing.
I had an updated version of this slide,
which I guess I didn't include in here.
So take note of what I'm about to say,
because it's actually important.
The part that is highlighted right
now should be in NS file coordination.
So you want to create an
NS file coordinator instance
and do coordinate for writing.
You want to coordinate the write out
of that preview data as you would
anything that's in iCloud storage.
So we're working on pushing out
to you actually the code for this
Cloud Notes app that I'm showing to you.
And in that code, this is done right.
So take note of that.
So I'll show you that now.
So, if we go over to our note document,
and this is where we're going
to write out the content,
I have this little method up here that
returns me a little NSData of preview
JPEG that I'll be able to use for my
preview data that I'll write out to disk.
And then the code here is essentially
what we just saw on the slide.
After I have called super,
which will write the actual
contents of my document out,
if that has succeeded,
I will go ahead and create a URL.
In my case, I simply append .preview to
the end of the document name,
and I do store it in the data directory
rather than the document directory.
So if I have note1.note,
that's how I use the .note
extension for my files,
then the preview file is
called note1.note.preview.
And I put that in the data directory.
And then I actually... I properly create
an NS file coordinator and coordinate
writing to write the preview file out.
And that's just taking the data
and writing it to the proper URL.
The other bit I want to show you is
how to handle this on the other end,
the receiving device.
And that's going to be in
my root view controller,
which has a table view
that shows all my files.
That's my version of a document chooser.
I have this very simple
self-wrote index path.
And I'm going to put the preview
image in the cell's image view,
but I start out just
by setting it to nil,
and then I'm going to call this method,
which is load preview for index path,
and this guy is a little
asynchronous operation that goes
and fetches the preview image
and will apply it to the cell.
So I'm going to do that,
and then let's go look at that code.
In here, I go look at my model,
which is this little file representation,
and the file representation will tell
me the document URL for each row,
and also the preview
URL associated with it,
which I know because I know to take
note1.note to note1.note.preview and
look in the data directory for it.
[Transcript missing]
And I also have this little guy,
which is a dictionary of
preview loading operations,
this actual NS block operations.
I'm going to use that in a little bit
for the purpose of actually being able to
cancel this operation if the cell becomes
no longer on screen or I reload data,
something like that.
So all I need to do is go
to a background thread,
so I dispatch async to the global queue,
and I use an NS file coordinator to
coordinate reading to the preview URL.
And that operation,
coordinate reading to the preview URL,
will result in downloading
the preview file.
So I download what hopefully
is a very small file while
not downloading my document.
And when that operation is done,
on the main queue,
I can enqueue the preview loading
operation that I created up here,
and that will go and apply
the image to the cell.
The last little bit of making
this code great is implementing a
delegate method on the table view.
This is actually a new method
in iOS 6 for UI table view.
That's didEndDisplayingCell.
And that tells us when the
user scrolls a cell off screen
or when reload data is called,
we no longer need a cell.
For any reason that a cell gets reused,
[Transcript missing]
Now that I should have preview,
let's try this.
So there's -- I now have previews
popped up in this document.
And, you know, I can edit this preview,
too.
You know, for my WWDC, you know,
maybe I want to change this.
I think about this as more
of an Xcode kind of thing.
Oh, I don't have that on here.
Maybe I have it on here.
Let's see.
Yeah, I've got some images on here.
We'll also get to see this
sync across and it'll be fun.
So I'm going to change --
it changes the preview and
momentarily we should actually
see the preview come up over here.
Ta-da.
is a great guy.
He's a great guy.
All right.
So that's preview.
It's not that hard.
Write out the data in the background
thread using UIDoctrment override.
And then we just download that
individual preview file without
downloading the entire document.
Save network,
save storage on the user's device.
It's a great technique.
All right.
It's time to talk about
The last things we want to think about
to polish our app and get it ready to
put on the store and maybe think about
some of the ideas that are what we would
consider being a good iCloud citizen.
And being a good iCloud citizen
is really about handling conflicts
in addition to using -- trying not
to use a lot of network bandwidth,
which we've talked about
a little bit already.
But conflicts,
I'm sure you've heard about this before
if you came to this talk last year or
if you've been to other iCloud talks.
It's always going to be reiterated
because we simply can't avoid
in a cloud-based world the
idea of conflicts happening.
We've got all these devices all living
under the cloud all at the same time.
User can be making edits on any of them.
But any of them may or may
not be connected to the
network at any given time.
That's the network -- or
that's the nature of the beast.
So if we end up in a situation
where we make different changes on
different devices and they're not
connected to the network at that time,
but eventually they do get
connected to the network,
at the time they get
we've got a conflict.
So how do we handle it?
In an ideal world, we have to, well,
in a definite world,
we must always handle conflicts.
And the reason for that is
the way that iCloud manages
conflicts is when it detects them,
it creates a version that is,
it decides is effectively
the winner of that conflict.
And that is the current
version of your file on disk.
That's what you will read if
you go access your document even
after the conflict has occurred.
Whatever iCloud has
decided is the winner.
winner, which is basically the last one.
iCloud will also pick a conflict loser
and create a new version of the file
that represents the conflict loser.
You access that through
the NSFileVersion API.
If you don't deal with
conflicts in some way,
these conflict versions
stay on your user's device.
And if you've got large documents,
you can build up conflict
versions that stick around forever
and needlessly waste space.
So always handle conflicts.
Now, getting back to my perfect world,
a great strategy for handling conflicts
is some kind of automatic merging.
If your application has the
smarts to be able to take two
conflicted versions of a document,
put them together,
figure out what the right thing is,
and save that to disk, awesome.
I will personally give you a high five,
a handshake, and a pat on the back.
Nobody has done it.
Oh, man.
Okay.
Well, you'll have it done by next year.
[Transcript missing]
This isn't always possible.
In those cases, when it's not possible,
the direction is be lazy
about conflict handling.
And what we mean by that is don't
ping the user as soon as you detect a
conflict and force them to stop whatever
they're doing and deal with the conflict.
I mean, it's great to tell the user
that there was a conflict,
but don't make it so they
can't do anything else before
they deal with the conflict.
So what we want is maybe
something like this,
where we show a little bit of UI that
lets the user know that they're in a
state and gives them a way to access
conflict resolution on their own time.
So when they decide, "Hey,
I wanna deal with whatever conflict
happened "and run through whatever
conflict handling mechanism
"you have created for them,"
They can do that on their own time.
So that's dealing with conflicts.
Let's talk about some advanced error
handling stuff you can do in UIDocument.
I'm putting this part in there because
I think it's a great polished thing,
and I think that nobody really knows
about what I'm about to tell you.
And that's that reading and
writing methods in UIDocument,
they all return this
NSError instance by indirection,
but what happens with that?
Well, the UIDocument machinery takes that
NSError and it sends it to this method,
which you can override on UIDocument,
which is handleError user
interaction permitted.
Great.
What does that method do?
Well, what that method does is take the
NSError and look at it and see,
you know, first of all,
the error message, but more importantly,
does this error have a recovery
attempter associated with it?
And if that's true,
if the error has a recovery attempter,
and the user interaction
parameter is yes.
Then the default implementation of
UIDoctument will actually put up an
alert that shows your error message
to the user and gives them the option
to invoke your recovery attempter.
So you can get in the way by overriding
this method in your subclass.
And when we send an error,
you intercept it.
You can then customize that error,
possibly by changing the message and
by including a recovery attempter,
sending your customized instance
to UIDoctument's default handler.
Another way that you can get
in the way of this is simply in
the reading and writing methods.
If you've overridden these,
you can create your custom
NSError instance there and our machinery
will send it over to HandleError.
Additionally,
you can also just yourself call
HandleError user interaction
permitted at any time.
Or if you don't like our UI,
you have your own UI,
you can implement HandleError user
interaction permitted yourself and
do essentially whatever you want.
You just need to respect the
user interaction permitted flag.
So if that's no, you don't put up UI.
And that flag would be no in situations
like when we're closing the application.
If the application is closing,
UI doesn't help us because
the application is going away.
So let's talk about
signing out of iCloud.
This is kind of the last architectural
thing that we're going to deal with.
[Transcript missing]
The application really just
wants to get out of the way.
That's all it wants to do.
It wants to determine that this
has happened by registering
for the NS Ubiquity token,
identity token to change notification,
the new notification iOS 6.
This will tell you when
that token changed.
And when that happens,
it just closes any open documents
because they don't make sense anymore.
If the user had a document in
iCloud and the user signed out,
Get out of the way.
Close those documents.
They're no longer accessible.
If the user wants to get
those documents back,
they will sign back into
that iCloud account.
Simple as that.
And you want to provide user
feedback so that the user understands
that their data isn't gone.
It just requires their, you know,
nice little credentials,
their account name and password
and settings to sign back into
iCloud and get their data back.
So that's pretty easy.
We're going to talk about
code for that in a second.
But, you know,
you can write a little alert that
looks like this that shows them,
you know, hey, you signed out iCloud.
Sign back in to get your data back.
Last thing is,
should be the last thing for
any application that you ship,
but really especially
in the iCloud world,
that's testing.
You can do testing effectively
in iCloud by using Airplane
Mode to create conflicts.
That's something people ask about a lot,
like, you know,
how do I test a conflict pass?
Well,
Airplane Mode is a great way to do that.
Take two devices,
put one of them on Airplane Mode,
make changes on both devices,
bring the one in Airplane
Mode back online.
When they get to talk
to each other again,
conflicts come in.
This is a great analog for
user scenarios because Airplane
Mode simulates simply being out of
contact with the network for a while,
and that's a great simulation.
basic changes,
things you can do to your document while
that document is open on one application.
So that's as simple as have
the document open on one app,
make a change from another device,
and make sure that syncs over
properly and everything happens
correctly on the remote device.
Also,
while a document is open on one device,
change the name of that
document from another device.
You can also delete the document
while it is open on one device.
You can also do all of these
things rather than while the
document is open and running,
while the document is sort of
conceptually open but your application
is waiting for state restoration.
And if you're expecting sort of
that document to come back up
when you do state restoration,
you can exercise all of these things,
changing concepts.
I'm moving and deleting.
And then see that your state restoration
machinery handles it correctly.
The last thing there is use
Network Activity Monitor to -- if
you are interested in looking at
the performance of your application
while it's doing all these things.
It's great if you get all the right
things happening at the user level,
but you might also want to ensure
that you're not creating unnecessary
amounts of network activity and
using bandwidth in the process,
maybe doing -- syncing more data back
and forth than is actually required.
So I'm going to show you one last demo.
And that's the code for responding
to sign out in Cloud Notes.
So we're going to go back
to our application delegate.
And so we registered for the NS Ubiquity
identity did change notification up here
and application did finish launching.
And the selector that we used
for that is check user iCloud
preference and setup if necessary.
That's the same thing
that we called up here.
So the idea is this is a method that
we run when we launch our application.
but we also run it any time
the iCloud state changes.
And to make sign-out work great,
if the user is set up
having chosen to use iCloud,
we're going to make sure we
check the ubiquitous token,
which is something that we're going to
store also in NSUserDefaults alongside
the user's iCloud choice.
So that method is this thing
that looks in NSUserDefaults,
takes token data,
unarchives it to create a
version of the ubiquitous token,
and then our logic is -- oops.
If that token has changed
and we used to have a token,
meaning in our previous
time we went through this,
we were signed into iCloud,
then we have signed out and we should
let the user know that this happened.
We use a UI alert view for this again.
Then in our backup and check user iCloud
preference and setup if necessary,
a little bit of work we do
here is check whether -- if the
user is not signed into iCloud,
we make sure we set our
Cloud Manager to not using iCloud.
That way all the other bits of our
application get to know about that state.
And then -- hopefully that works.
Yay.
We actually remove from the
NSUser defaults our user choice.
And the idea for this is if
you sign out from iCloud and
then you sign back in later,
we'll actually want to ask you
again if you want to use iCloud now.
So we have to switch to local
storage when they sign out,
but when they sign back in,
we may want to switch
back to iCloud Storage.
So the last bit to make this all
work is to store the Ubiquiti token.
And that's just in NSUser
defaults right down here.
We take a look, and if we have a token,
we'll go ahead and archive it up,
set it in NSUser defaults.
My key is Ubiquiti identity token.
If we don't have a token,
we'll just go ahead and remove
that key from NSUser defaults.
And let's go ahead and
run our application.
Okay.
So here's our app.
Let's try signing out.
I can short-circuit this operation pretty
easily by going into Documents and Data,
turning that off.
Documents are off.
Go back to Cloud Notes.
Pops me up an alert that says, "Hey,
I've signed out.
I can sign back in if I want to
retrieve my documents." I can see that,
hey, I'm just down to local stuff now,
and I don't get to use the cloud.
I can sign back in, though,
which is really just turning
documents and data back on.
Go back to Cloud Notes.
I'm re-presented with the alert that
asks me if I want to use iCloud.
I do.
My data comes back.
I download the preview
files and put them back up.
I can even access a file.
It'll download that from the
cloud and my content comes back.
Everything's great just by
signing back into the cloud.
That's it.
If you have any other
questions about using iCloud,
we've talked about high-level concepts,
key things that will make
building an iCloud application
easier and make it work for you.
We're working on getting you the
code that I just wrote today so
you can see other pieces of it,
like how the little cloud manager
singleton works and such like that.
If you have additional questions,
you can email jury.apple.com.
Our evangelist, Mike Jurowicz,
always happy to help you.
We have some additional sessions.
Thankfully,
these are all still yet to happen.
A couple this afternoon on using
iCloud with NSDocument if you're
interested in iCloud on the desktop.
Using iCloud with Core Data.
I know a lot of people
are interested in that.
And Advanced iCloud Storage tomorrow.
Good luck to you in writing
fantastic iCloud applications.
I can't wait to see them.